# Pycairo Animation Library

A library for generating animations using
[Pycairo](https://pycairo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (the Python version of
Cairo) and [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg.html). Pycairo is used to
generate each frame of the animation and then an ffmpeg process is called to
merge all those frames into a ProRes (.mov) video file.

### Requirements

* [pycairo](https://pypi.org/project/pycairo/) - `conda install pycairo` or
  `pip install pycairo` * [Pillow](https://pypi.org/project/Pillow/) - `conda
  install pillow` or `pip install Pillow` *
  [ffmpeg](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/ffmpeg) - `brew install ffmpeg` *
  To use a different version of ffmpeg (A non-Homebrew version), just specify
  the `ffmpeg_path` argument when initializing an instance of `VideoWriter` (it
  should be the path to the ffmpeg bin file that you want to use).

### Overview

The [anim](/anim) directory contains two classes, `Frame` and `VideoWriter`.
The `Frame` class manages a Cairo surface (the image data) and a Cairo context
(what Cairo uses to update the image data). The `Frame` class has methods for
drawing lines, writing text, applying a blur, and clearing parts or all of the
image. A `Frame` instance can be passed to a `VideoWriter` instance using
`video_writer.add_frame(frame)` to write that frame to disk as a PNG image file
in a temporary directory. Once all the frames have been written to disk, call
`video_writer.write_video('output_path.mov')` to run the ffmpeg process that
merges all those frames into a video file.

The [examples](/examples) directory contains two examples
([`hello_world.py`](/examples/hello_world.py) and
[`random_walk.py`](/examples/random_walk.py)) which demonstrate how to use the
library.

The video generated by [`hello_world.py`](/examples/hello_world.py) (converted
to a GIF, the actual video is smoother):

![](/examples/hello_world.gif)

The video generated by [`random_walk.py`](/examples/random_walk.py) (converted
to a GIF):

![](/examples/random_walk.gif)

⚠️ There are currently very few methods available on the `Frame` class. I've
only added the methods that I've needed for my personal use cases. But you can
easily extend the class to meet your needs. If you want to extend the class,
but you're not familiar with Pycairo, here's a great tutorial that explains how
Pycairo works: [Cairo Tutorial for Python
Programmers](https://web.archive.org/web/20210416173739/https://www.tortall.net/mu/wiki/CairoTutorial)
(Note: this link is to an
[archived](https://web.archive.org/web/2021*/https://www.tortall.net/mu/wiki/CairoTutorial)
version of the original since the [original
site](https://www.tortall.net/mu/wiki/CairoTutorial) is currently down).
